# Distributed Session Management with Spring Boot, JWTs and Redis

While scaling up our application servers, we add more number of application servers to horizontally scale our application. The problem faced in this approach is that the one app server is unable to authenticate the token generated by another application server. One simple solution to this problem is to enable stickiness at the Load Balancer level. But that introduce another problem of user session getting invalidated in case of the application node goes down. We've tried to solve this problem in this application by adding Redis as the session storage for the application. When an application generates the token, it will be stored in the Redis and will be available across all the nodes of the application. 

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your machine.

### Prerequisites

What things you need to install the software and how to install them
- JDK 1.7
- Redis
- Maven

### Installing

We will need to run this application on two different servers or two instances on single server to test our application is allowing session management across servers.

Before this, lets first configure the appilcation properties located in distsession/src/main/resources directory:
```
# The host name of server where your redis is install.
# In my case redis is installed on my local system. Hence I've kept it as localhost.
redis.host = localhost

# The port at which redis is running. 6379 is the default port of redis.
redis.port = 6379

# The amount of idle time in minutes after which user will logout automatically if no activity is performed by user.
redis.idleTimeToInvalidateAuthToken = 30 

# Signing key which will be used by JWTs to create token.
redis.signingKey = "signingKey"
```

Here, we are running this application on two different ports on single machine.

Open terminal, reach to the project directory and execute following command:

```
mvn clean spring-boot:run -Dserver.port=8180
```

And in another terminal in the project directory, execute following command:

```
mvn clean spring-boot:run -Dserver.port=8280
```

## Running the tests

### Break down into end to end tests

- To login to the application:

```
POST localhost:8180/user/login

Header:
Content-Type:application/json

Body:
{
	"username": "dheeraj",
	"password": "mathur"
}
```

We will receive following response:

```
{
    "exception": false,
    "messages": [
        "Login Success!"
    ],
    "token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJzdWIiOiJkaGVlcmFqIiwiaWF0IjoxNTIyMzg5MTU0fQ.IqncAT2E0fIN4URG-r3TXmNie8cED_BxxlQGJreL_V4"
}
```

This means we've successfully logged in. We've received a token in resposne which will be used to access the authenticated resources of the application in subsequent calls. 

- Requesting a Authentication Enabled Resource:

```
GET localhost:8180/user/logintest

Header:
Authorization:eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJzdWIiOiJkaGVlcmFqIiwiaWF0IjoxNTIyMzg5MTU0fQ.IqncAT2E0fIN4URG-r3TXmNie8cED_BxxlQGJreL_V4
```

And same call on different instance (on different port in our case):

```
GET localhost:8280/user/logintest

Header:
Authorization:eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJzdWIiOiJkaGVlcmFqIiwiaWF0IjoxNTIyMzg5MTU0fQ.IqncAT2E0fIN4URG-r3TXmNie8cED_BxxlQGJreL_V4
```

Both of the above calls will provide us below result:

```
{
    "exception": false,
    "messages": [
        "Authentication Successful!"
    ]
}
```

Which means we've successfully authenticated request on two different instances of the application with the same auth token. Also, the life span of the token is extended to 30 minutes after successfully authenticate the request.

- Logout from Application:

```
GET localhost:8180/user/logout

Header:
Authorization:eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJzdWIiOiJkaGVlcmFqIiwiaWF0IjoxNTIyMzg5MTU0fQ.IqncAT2E0fIN4URG-r3TXmNie8cED_BxxlQGJreL_V4
```

It will return following response:

```
{
    "exception": false,
    "messages": [
        "Logged out successfully!"
    ]
}
```

We've now successfully logged out of the application. Now if we try to access the authenticated resource again, it will return 401 unauthorized because user is logged out. 

## Built With

* [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) - Dependency Management

## Authors

* **Dheeraj Mathur** - *Initial work* - [PurpleBooth](https://github.com/dheerajmathur91)

